This is the new API, remember,
not available on iPhone, and iPad.
We need to use a constructor,
a constructor differs per sensor.
For example, in this case,
we can read the magnetometer,
we can select the frequency,
the frequency is in seconds, and then,
you listen for
the reading event over that object.
And in this case, we are getting
three values for the magnetometer.
And then you start reading, you can
start reading, you can stop reading.
Make sense?
The old API, you just read the values and
you can stop reading the values
because for the old API,
your API was only supporting magnetometer,
a gyroscope, and accelerometer.
And all those three sensors
are typically always on.
Actually, most of the sensors are always
on because those sensors are being used,
for example,
to change the orientation of your phone.
When you are in one specific app and
you go landscape, it uses those sensors.
So the sensors are on, so using those
sensors don't have a cost in battery, for
example.
Because they're always on anyway, you're
just reading the value for your own app.
So these are the sensors available and
the constructors available today on
this generic sensor API, the one that is
now working on iOS and that's a permission
policy in case you wanna enable or
disable that from the HTTP header.
So you have an absolute orientation
sensor, linear acceleration sensor,
gyroscope, ambia line sensor, magnetometer
accelerometer Okay, make sense?
And do we have any Android
user here in the room?
Okay, four.
Well, because on Android,
we can use this API on Chrome and Android.
So that's my Android, okay?
So you you can see I have my Android here
and you're seeing a mirror of the screen.
So on this is
fairman.github.io/capabilities,
the URL for these workshops.
And they're cool, they must try, okay?
So if you have an iPhone, those demos,
the first demo one work because
they're using the generic sensor API.
So for example, orientation phone.
In this case,
you can see I'm moving my phone and
it's applying CSS 3D
transformations based on that.
Is that useful?
Again, it depends.
It's a nice effect for a website.
By the way,
did you see any permission dialog?
No.
So on this API, on Android, we don't get
any permission dialog, you just read this.
So you can apply CSS effects to
your websites right away, okay?
For your titles, you can do a little game,
a gravity game, or
things like that without any issue.
Then I can try the 360 degree.
This is cool as well,
so I can move my phone.
And this is a built on
window into another,
it's like a portal into another dimension,
okay?
Like in I'm wearing the beach right now,
So, and you can see it works pretty good.
Every axis, okay?
Those are open source by the way,
so if you wanna check the code and
use them, you can.
These demos are coming from Intel.
And also you can get the raw data.
So I have here a sensor info where you
can actually add different observers
like sensor observers, so I can add,
for example, which sensor do you want?
Let's try accelerometer.
The frequency, I can use 16 and
then I can turn it on.
And now you can see the raw values
that the phone is giving that API.
So you can even check,
okay, where are the values?
You can see that you
won't get integer values.
So typically,
when you're using the sensor APIs,
you don't need to check absolute values,
just check ranges.
Between -0.1 and 0.1, don't ask for
zero because it's difficult
to get really zero.
So you can see, by the way,
why it's nine dot something close to 10?
Can you.
>> 9.8 meters per second squared.
>> 9.8, that's gravity, Earth gravity.
Of course, we can talk with Elon Musk and
try these on Mars, okay?
And see, yeah, it will change, right?
So we would see a different value
here in JavaScript on Mars.
Anyway, of course he if I turn
the phone down, you will see -10, okay?
On different axes, it depends on the axis.
So that's the accelerometer and
you can try all the other as well.
I don't wanna try all of them but
I know the gyroscope, okay?
And now you can see the bias and
gyroscope based on your
thought on what you're doing.
Let's write another one
such as ambient light.
So, what you see there
is that it says error.
So what's going on with ambient light?
Ambient light also used
to have an old API, okay?
An old API.
So classic API not using
the generic sensor API.
In fact, if we go to kind of use, though
this is the first time we're going to kind
of use, this is a website where you can
check if you can use one particular API.
So I can check, for example, sensors or
sensor, orientation sensor and
we have ambient light sensor,
you can see it's pretty red.
There are some greens there and
then there is a fly,
let me increase this a little bit.
So what's going on here?
It's under a flag on Chrome or Firefox.
It was green between some versions,
but then they removed that.
Why?
Because they realized that it was
triggering some privacy issues.
It's weird,
that's why we can't have nine things.
So, someone realized that
when you have a tab, okay?
And let's say you open an app
that is using this API to
read the current light on your room, and
then you open another tab and
you open Tiktok or Tinder, okay?
Someone realized that the brightness
of your screen is also
affecting the light around the sensor.
And someone could actually get what
are you seeing another taps or
in which websites where you,
just by reading, light changes, okay?
Makes sense?
So because of that they say,
we have a privacy issue here,
so let's remove it and
it's still there under a flag.
So we can still work with it, okay?
If we enable a flag, it's experimental.
I think on Chrome, for example, I think
the flag is for generic sensor extra
classes, but you can still go and
enable generic sensor extra classes.
So for example, I can go to Chrome here,
go to Chrome or
add other flags and
enable extra search for
sensor generic sensor extra classes,
enable.
So this will add ambient light sensor and
magnetometer on Mac, Windows.
I can relaunch this.
So now I can try this on
my desktop computer, but
also I can enable that here as well.
So I can go to Chrome,
flags on my Android,
search for
the same generic sensor extra classes,
enable that, relaunch Chrome and
now it should work.
We can try, I can go back and
use my real phone for that, let's see.
Oops, add sensor, ambient light,
frequency, 60, add.
Okay, so now it's getting me 0 for
some reason, and only 0,
so it's not changing.
But it's an experimental, let's try
it on desktop to see if that works.
Do I have it here?
I do.
We are talking about the sensor info,
that's the link.
So we're going to try, ambient light 16.
Let's see, let's activate the sensor.
No, not readable.
Why is not readable?
Probably my Mac is not sending the
information to Chrome, that's one reason.
You can try it on your Mac,
depends on the Mac, I'm on an M1.
So it depends on that.
You can read that,
you can try it in Firefox, but anyway,
you know that that sensor is there but
it's still really experimental.
So that's actually the yellow side.
In this case, it's not the API, it's just
that one, and by the way do you have
accelerometer on a computer on
a desktop computer and a laptop?
>> I mean, I know that the old ones,
>> The old ones have,
which ones the ones with just with
a hard drive, not with an SSD.
Because the hard drive on the max,
they used to have an accelerometer
to know if your computer is dropped,
so they can look or actually,
yeah, lock the hard drive.
Anyway, so today, those sensors are more
optimized for tablets and phones, okay?
Makes sense?
And the ambient light, yeah,
we're not there yet, okay, to use.
Okay, what about the iPhone?
So as I mentioned, that API is
not available on the iPhone, but
you still can read accelerometer,
gyroscope, and magnetometer, how?
Just adding an event listener to
the window object, so global events,
just that.
Add event listener, device motion,
device orientation.
And you will get the same
values as with the other API.
So you can do the same effects, okay?
The same effect with the phone that moves.
Or even you can do the same
birtwell door portal
to another dimension,
it's possible in iOS.
There is a however, since iOS 13,
that's a few years ago, Apple realized
that they also have
privacy issue with this.
There were arts, iframes that were reading
your sensors to try to fingerprint you,
okay?
Because of that,
they created a permission dialogue
that they didn't document anywhere.
You can go and search for that,
you will find my blog post on that.
So and I got it looking at
the WebKit source code actually.
And then someone from the WebKit
team confirmed that on Twitter.
So at that point,
they were not documenting anything.
So actually, if you wanna use this on iOS,
you need to request permission and
the user will see a dialog, okay?
So then no one will do that
it doesn't make any sense.
So if you have a game or
an immersive experience on iOS,
you have to request permission
on device motion event.
And if it's granted, it will give you
a response as a string, granted or denied.
If it's granted, then you can
start listening for these events.
If not,
it's not going to call your events.
In fact, there were a lot of websites and
games using this.
And from one version of iOS from the other
one, everything has stopped working and
no one knew why.
It's because Apple added
that permission dialog as
a requirement to use the API, okay?
Make sense?
So, again, the sensors that you
wanna use are accelerometer,
gyroscope, and magnetometer,
the rest are very experimental.